---
title: "Why MDLR"
tldr: "No fluff just stuff"
author: "Rene Kootstra"
tags: ["introduction"]
---

## Complexity
Modern software development is complex, fragmented and tool driven. Based on the domain - i.e. cloud, frontend or backend - there are many programming languages to choose from and frequently new languages appear, likely derivatives of existing ones. With the tooling it is just as bad: compilers, cross compilers, packet managers, ci/cd pipelines, github actions, terraform, etc, etc etc. Granted these tools are making life a lot easier then if you would not have them but that is exactly the problem: tools are made because software development is complex.  
  
## Expensive and slow to start
I have witnessed several project starts in my professional career and I am somewhat astonished on how it works the last few years. It is very common that the first sprints (1-2 months) are spent on setting up CI/CD pipelines, test frameworks, build systems, reporting, code quality metrics and more. For a team size of 3 people that means 40 x 4 x 4 = 480-960 hours or roughly 50K-100K EUR to start a project and have nothing to show for it.  
  
## Mostly waiting for results
Personaly I am a red-green-refactor kind of developer which thrives on short feedback loops because it keeps me in the flow but also allows for experimenting with different solution directions. This is one of the main reasons why I dislike (cross) compilers and transpilers. They add substantial amount of time to my small development steps....  
  
## The MDLR way
The MDLR way is simple: Only JavaScript, only focus on the deliverable and the rest should be provided by MDLR. The latter entails: libraries, building, hosting and tooling. But none of those point should hinder the development speed only improve it. A simple rule of thumb that I adhere to is: changes should be availble in less then 1 second.   
  
Let it be clear that there is no such thing as a silver bullet and a such MDLR will not solve everything but it has been working in the cloud, frontend and backend domains for several years now, so maybe it can also help you...

## More about MDLR
[The Module System](link:#/posts/20221202-mdlr-basics.md)  
[The Bundler](link:#/posts/20221205-mdlr-bundler.md)  
[Building Web Components](link:#/posts/20221129-webpages-with-mdlr.md)  
[Getting Started](link:#/posts/20221107-getting-started.md)  